- documents that the driver should carry with him or her
while driving a motor vehicle.

The applicant is required to correctly answer at least 60 percent
of the questions in the test.

2.5. Getting Your Driving License

An applicant can apply for the driving license after 30 days from
the date of issue of learner's licence. Following documents are
needed to apply for the driving licence.

- duly filled in application (Form 4),

- effective learner's licence to drive the vehicle of class to
which this application relates,

- appropriate fee,

- three recent passport size photographs,

- Self declaration (Form 1). A medical certificate (Form 1-A)
is needed in case the application is for the driving licence for

a transport vehicle or if the person has attained the age of
forty years

- proof of residence,
- proof of age, and

- driving certificate in Form 5 issued by the driving school
from where the applicant received training, if any. Driving
certificate is required if the application is for the issue of
driving licence for a transport vehicle.

Driving Test

After the application is submitted for the driving licence to the
licencing authority, the applicant is required to appear for a
driving test. The driving test is conducted in a vehicle of the type
for which the licence is sought by the applicant. The applicant is
tested for driving skills, understanding of the vehicle, knowledge
of traffic laws, rules and regulations, signs, signals, and general
attitude while driving :

taking suitable precautions before starting the engine
including adjusting rear-view mirror(s),

moving away safely and smoothly straight ahead,

regulating speed and adjusting gears properly when the
traffic conditions or road conditions warrant reduction in
speed,

stopping, parking, starting the vehicle and moving away on
a hill road or slope with proper use of hand brakes, throttle
and or foot brake without any rolling back,

turning left and right at corners with proper use of rear-
view mirror(s) before signaling,

overtaking with proper use of rear-view mirror(s) and
signals, or allow to be overtaken properly,