23

Maintaining your vehicle in good condition, and following some
good driving practices not only helps reduce air pollution but also
saves fuel costs.

3.19.

Keep your engine properly tuned, and tyres properly
inflated.

Observe road signs and traffic laws.
Avoid speeding.
Avoid frequent acceleration and braking.

Remove access weight and avoid keeping heavy items
in your vehicles.

Use car-pooling, public transport, bike or walking wherever
possible.

Plan or combine errands into a single trip.

Turn off the ignition at long traffic stops, or other long hold-
ups.

.What Must NOT be on My Vehicle?

Any red or blue lights showing to the front, flashing or
blinking lights,

Any spotlights or search-lights,

Any multi-toned horn or siren that gives a succession of
different sounds,

make use of a cut-out by which exhaust gases are released
other than through the silencer,

Tinted glass windows in violation of the Rule 100(2) of
Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989,

Black film on windows,

Vehicle painted olive-green which is reserved for vehicle of
defence department, or painted yellow with dark blue lines
which is reserved for the vehicles of educational
institutions carrying students, and

Motor cycles in yellow colour, which is reserved for the
police department.

Check Your Vehicle

Quickly check your vehicle daily before you begin driving for the
following :

Windscreen and windows for any cracks.

Windscreen wipers are in good condition.

Look for proof of water or oil under the vehicle that might
indicate a leak.

24

e Check for wear and tear of tyres and proper tyre pressure.

e Make sure the gauges are working properly.

e Alllamps and lights are working properly especially during
night.

e Licence plates are intact and registration mark on them is
properly visible.

e Mirrors are clean and adjusted properly.

¢ “Pollution Under Control” certificate is valid.

It is also a good practice to regularly do the following, especially
before going on along trip:

e Check that the battery is in good condition and the
connections are proper.