87

Registered axle weight : means in respect of the axle of any
vehicle, the axle weight certified and registered by the
registering authority as permissible for that axle.

Registering authority : means an authority empowered to
register motor vehicles under Chapter IV.

Semi-trailer : means a vehicle not mechanically propelled (
other than a trailer ), which is intended to be connected to a
motor vehicle and which is so constructed that a portion of it is
super- imposed on, and a part of whose weight is borne by,
that motor vehicle.

Stage carriage : means a motor vehicle constructed or
adapted to carry more than six passengers excluding the
driver for hire or reward at separate fares paid by or for
individual passengers, either for the whole journey or for
stages of the journey.

Tourist vehicle : means a contract carriage constructed or
adapted and equipped and maintained in accordance with
such specifications as may be prescribed in this behalf.
Tractor : means a motor vehicle which is not itself
constructed to carry any load (other than equipment used for
the purpose of propulsion), but excludes a road-roller.

Traffic signs : includes all signals, warning sign posts,
direction posts, markings on the road or other devices for the
information, guidance or direction of drivers of motor
vehicles.

Trailer : means any vehicle, other than a semi-trailer and a
sidecar, drawn or intended to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
Transport vehicle : means a public service vehicle, a goods
carriage, an educational institution bus or a private service
vehicle.

Unladen weight : means the weight of a vehicle or trailer
including all equipment ordinarily used with the vehicle or
trailer when working, but excluding the weight of a driver or
attendant; and where alternative parts or bodies are used the
unladen weight of the vehicle means the weight of the vehicle
with the heaviest such alternative part or body.

Weight : means the total weight transmitted for the time
being by the wheels of a vehicle to the surface on which the
vehicle rests.

88

BPwner

eonoy