vehicle not so constructed or adapted when used for the
carriage of goods.

85

Gross vehicle weight : means in respect of any vehicle the
total weight of the vehicle and load certified and registered by
the registering authority as permissible for that vehicle.
Heavy goods vehicle : means any goods carriage the gross
vehicle weight of which, or a tractor or a road-roller the
unladen weight of either of which, exceeds 12,000 kilograms.
Heavy passenger motor vehicle : means any public service
vehicle or private service vehicle or educational institution bus
oromnibus the gross vehicle weight of any of which, or a
motor car the unladen weight of which, exceeds 12,000
kilograms.

Invalid carriage : means a motor vehicle specially designed
and constructed, and not merely adapted, for the use of a
person suffering from some physical defect or disability, and
used solely by or for such a person. Learner's licence: means
the licence issued by a competent authority under Chapter II
authorising the person specified therein to drive as a learner, a
motor vehicle or a motor vehicle of any specified class or
description.

Licensing Authority : means an authority empowered to
issue licence under Chapter II or, as the case may be, chapter
III.

Light Motor Vehicle (LMV) : means a transport vehicle or
omnibus the gross vehicle weight of either of which or a motor
car or tractor or road-roller the unladen weight of any of
which, does not exceed 2[7500] kilograms.

Maxicab : means any motor vehicle constructed or adapted to
carry more than six passengers, but not more than twelve
passengers, excluding the driver, for hire or reward.

Medium goods vehicle : means any goods carriage other
than alight motor vehicle or a heavy goods vehicle.

Medium passenger motor vehicle : means any public
service vehicle or private service vehicle, or educational
institution bus other than a motor cycle, invalid carriage, light
motor vehicle or heavy passenger motor vehicle.

Motorcab : means any motor vehicle constructed or adapted
to carry not more than six passengers excluding the driver for
hire or reward.