License for transport vehicles is issued or renewed for a period of
three years. However, the licence is issued or renewed for a
period of one year only in case the licence is to drive a transport
vehicle carrying goods of dangerous or hazardous nature.

e International Driving Permit (IDP)
The licensing authority is also competent to issue International

6

Driving Permit to Indian nationals to drive vehicles in countries
other than India but excluding the countries with which there are
no diplomatic relations. However, driving a motor vehicle in
another country must be in compliance with the laws and
regulations of that country. IDP is valid for a period of not more
than one year from the date of issue or till the validity of the
driving licence, whichever is earlier.

2.3. Categories of Driving Licences

The driving licences in India are issued for some broad classes of
vehicles. Moreover, a driving licence is issued under a specific
category - Non- Transport, or Transport - for every class of
vehicle based on the purpose of use.

Different classes of vehicles for which licences are issued are:
e Motorcycle Without Gears

A licence for Motorcycle Without Gears class of vehicles is
issued for driving only two-wheelers without gears. A
person holding such a licence cannot drive a two-wheeler
with gears or a vehicle which does not fall in the class of a
motorcycle. (no categories for Transport and non-
transport2 wheelers??)

e Motorcycle With Gears

Licence for Motorcycle With Gears is issued for driving only
two- wheelers like motorcycle, scooter etc. A person with a
Motorcycle with Gears licence can drive any two-wheeler
with or without gears but cannot drive a vehicle that does
not fall in the class of a motorcycle. (no categories for
Transport and non-transport2 wheelers??)

e Light Motor Vehicle

The licence for the Light Motor Vehicle class of vehicles is
issued for driving motor vehicles like motor car, jeep,
tractor, tempo etc. A licence for a Light Motor Vehicle is
further restricted based on the purpose of use and the type
of vehicle.

e Transport Vehicle