Transport Vehicles heavy include vehicles like trucks,
buses, tourist coaches, tractor trailers, goods vehicles etc.
Such vehicles are either passenger vehicles used for hire or
reward, or goods vehicles. A separate driving licence is
required to drive this class of vehicles.

e Invalid Carriage

This is a class of motor vehicles which are specially
designed and constructed, and not merely adapted, for the
use of a person suffering from some physical defect or
disability, and used solely by or for such a person.

e Road Roller

This is a special class of vehicles which are used for the
construction of roads or compacting purpose.

e Motor Vehicle of a Specified Description

A licence can also be issued to entitle the holder to drive a
motor vehicle of a specified description. Some example of
this class of vehicles are loaders and excavators, cranes,
fork-lifts, boring rigs, and other construction equipment.

2.4. Getting Your Learner's Licence
Following documents are required to apply for learner's licence:

¢ properly filled in application form (Form 2),

¢ requisite fee,

© proof of Residence,

° proof of age,

e three recent passport size photographs,

e self-declaration (Form 1). A medical certificate (Form 1-A)
is needed in case the application is for getting the learner's
licence for a transport vehicle or if the person has attained

the age of forty years.

° the driving license currently held by the applicant in case
the application is for transport vehicle, and

. consent of parent or guardian in case the applicant is a

minor.

Preliminary Test

Once the applicant has submitted the application form along with
documents as mentioned above, the applicant is required to
appear for a test of knowledge. This test is conducted to satisfy
the licensing authority that the applicant possesses adequate
knowledge of :

- traffic signs, signals, and rules of the road regulations,

- duties of a driver when his or her vehicle is involved in an
accident,

- precautions to be taken while passing an unmanned railway
crossing, and