Motor cycle : means a two-wheeled motor vehicle, inclusive of any detachable side-car having an extra wheel, attached to the motor vehicle. Motor vehicle or vehicle : means any mechanically propelled vehicle adapted for use upon roads whether the power of propulsion is transmitted thereto from an external or internal source and includes a chassis to which a body has not been attached and a trailer, but does not include a vehicle running upon fixed rails or a vehicle of a special type adapted for use only in a factory or in any other enclosed premises or a vehicle having less than four wheels fitted with engine capacity of not exceeding twenty-five cubic centimetres. Tractor-trailer : A Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in United India Insurance Company Ltd. v. Pritpal Singh (1996-2) 113 Punj. L.R. 49 held that even though trailer may be drawn by a motor vehicle if by if self is a motor vehicle and both the Tractor & Trailer taken together would constitute a transport vehicle. Omnibus : means any motor vehicle constructed or adapted to carry more than six persons excluding the driver. Owner : means a person in whose name a motor vehicle stands registered and where such person is a minor, the guardian of such minor, and in relation to a motor vehicle which is the subject of a hire-purchase, agreement, or an agreement of lease or an agreement of hypothecation, the person in possession of the vehicle under that agreement. Public place : means a road, street, way or other place, whether a thoroughfare or not, to which the public have a right of access, and includes any place or stand at which passengers are picked up or set down by a stage carriage. Private service vehicle : means a motor vehicle constructed or adapted to carry more than six persons excluding the driver and ordinarily used by or on behalf of the owner of such vehicle for the purpose of carrying persons for, or in connection with, his trade or business otherwise than for hire or reward but