For the vehicles fitted with seatbelts, it is mandatory, as per the
Central Motor vehicles rules, 1989, for the driver of the vehicle
and the person seated in the front seat to wear seatbelts at all
times while the vehicle is in motion. In addition, in case of M1
category of passenger vehicle (i.e. vehicles having capacity of 8
or less seats other than the driver), persons occupying front
facing rear seat are also required to wear seat belts at all times
while the vehicle is moving.

Seatbelts are for your own safety. Your chances of surviving a
motor vehicle accident improve significantly, if you wear a
seatbelt.

e Seatbelt keeps you behind the wheel and in control of the
vehicle in case of a collision.

e Seatbelt keeps your head and body from hitting the inside
of the vehicle.

e Seatbelt keeps you inside the vehicle in a collision. A person
who is thrown out of the vehicle during the collision has a
higher chance of getting serious injury.

It is very important to wear the seatbelts properly. Always put the
shoulder strap over your shoulder, never under your arm. The
lap-belt should be put low over the hips, not over the stomach.

Airbags are the supplemental devices to help prevent serious
bodily injury or death. You must wear a seatbelt even if your
vehicle is equipped with airbags. Airbags are helpful in
preventing injury only when a seatbelt is worn. In fact, if you are
not wearing a seatbelt, airbags can cause bodily injury.

3.17. Pollution Control

Every motor vehicle must carry a “Pollution Under Control”
certificate which is valid for six months. The new motor vehicles
must be re-certified for “Pollution Under Control” after the expiry
of one year from the date of first registration. The certificate must
always be carried in the vehicle at all times.

Maintaining your vehicle in good condition, and following some
good driving practices not only helps reduce air pollution but also
saves fuel costs.

e Keep your engine properly tuned, and tyres properly
inflated.

e Observe road signs and traffic laws.