5.6 Tips for Safe Driving

Safe or defensive driving, as per the National Safety Council,
USA, is getting to the destination safely -no traffic fines or
tickets, no accidents, no harm or injury, with no hassle to the
others on the road. In other words, it simply means driving
responsibly and with common-sense. Driving does not just mean
getting your driving license. It also means imbibing good driving
habits. Below are some of the important tips that will help you to
be a safe and responsible driver.

« Observe and obey traffic signs and signals all the time. That
means no rolling stop. Stop completely at the stop line or
when you see a stop sign.

55

Check mirrors and cover your blind spots by looking over
the shoulder. Always be aware of the blind spot of other
vehicles especially the big trucks. Stay out of other
vehicles' blind spots.

Use turn signals appropriately while turning or changing
lanes.

Stay alert and scan the road frequently for hazards.

Do not drive while under the influence of alcohol or drugs or
if you are feeling sleepy or drowsy.

Distracted driving is dangerous and illegal. No multi-
tasking - texting, talking on the phone, eating, reading,
watching a movie, adjusting radio/CD player/GPS,
shaving, putting a makeup etc. - while driving.

Adjust driving speed to road, weather and other conditions.
No tailgating. Leave a safe following distance from the
vehicle in the front.

Keep your vehicle in good condition. Keep windscreen,
windows and mirrors clean and keep the tyres properly
inflated.

Share the road with trucks, bikes, pedestrians,
motorcycles and other users of the road.

Be courteous and do not drive aggressively. Driving is nota
contest and it is not about 'winning'. It is about reaching
your destination safely.

Use seat-belts for all occupants of the vehicle. It is much
safer for the children and kids to be in the rear seat of the
vehicle.

Keep a first-aid kit in the vehicle.

Watch for rough and uneven shoulder of the road which
may be lower than the road.