The head lamps must be illuminated half an hour after sunset or
in situations when there is no sufficient light. The head lamps
must clearly render objects, vehicles and persons visible at a
distance of one hundred and fifty five meters ahead on the road.
Moreover, the head lamps must be fitted with a mechanism to
deflect light downwards (low beam or dipped light) so that the
light does not dazzle any person or other drivers.

It is a good and safe practice to use low-beam (dipped) headlights
while driving in the city or other populated areas where the roads
are generally lit with streetlight. High beams are recommended in
those areas where there are no streetlights on the road and the
overall traffic is sparse. If you are travelling on a highway and
using high-beam headlights, switch to low-beam headlights for
an oncoming vehicle. Also, switch to low-beam headlights when
you are behind another vehicle.

Keep your headlights clean and get them adjusted regularly so
that they aim properly.

3.13.Parking Lights

Every motor vehicle other than motor cycle or three-wheeled
invalid carriage must be fitted with one white or amber parking
light on each side in the front, and two red parking lights one on
each side in the rear of the vehicle. These front and rear parking
lights remain lit when the vehicle is kept stationary on the road.

3.14. Use of Red, White, Blue Lights or Spotlights

The use of blue light, red light, flashing light, and strobe lamps is
restricted by law for vehicles that serve specific purpose. No
motor vehicle must show a red light to the front and no light other
than red in the rear of the vehicle except for a white light to
illuminate the registration mark, a white light used while
reversing the vehicle, or amber coloured directional indicator
lights.

Use of red, blue, white or flashing lights is restricted to:
¢ ablinker type red light with purple glass for ambulances,

¢ a blue light with flasher as determined and notified by the
State Government,
21