2. THE DRIVING LICENSE

As per Section 3(1) of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, an effective
driving license is required to drive any motor vehicle on public
roads. No person is permitted to drive a vehicle in any public place
unless he or she holds a valid driving licence issued to him (or
her) authorising him (or her) to drive the category of vehicle for
which the licence was issued.

Driving licence is issued by the local licensing authority. Each
Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil) in the state of Haryana has been
designated as the licensing authority for a motor vehicle other
than a transport vehicle or an omnibus within the area of his or
her jurisdiction. In other words, SDMs issue driving licences for
light motor vehicles and toe wheelers. For transport vehicles, the
Regional Transport Officer and Assistant District Transport
Officer, or any other person as appointed by the State
Government is the licensing authority to issue licenses to persons
residing within their area of jurisdiction.

2.1. Age Eligibility

A person cannot be issued a driving licence unless he (or she)
meets the age criterion for the class of vehicle for which he (or

she) applies for a licence. Following is the age eligibility criterion
for driving a motor vehicle in India.

16 years - For motor cycles with engine capacity
not exceeding 50cc.

20 years - For transport vehicles (public service
vehicles, goods carriages, educational
institution bus or a private service vehicle) that
are used for hire or reward, or for transporting
goods.

18 years - Any other vehicle.

Moreover, it is the responsibility of the owner or person in charge
of the vehicle to not permit any person who does not have a valid
licence or does not satisfy the age requirements, to drive the
vehicle. If he do so then he is doing an offence under section 180
of motor vehicle act, for this there if proving of 3 months jail or Rs.
1000/_ or both.

2.2. Types of Driving Licenses

Following types of licenses are issued by the licensing authority in
India.

e Learner's licence